notes.md, before:

ToDo:
  X 1. home page & root route
  X 2. signup page 
    X - /users/new route
    X - users controller
    X - users#new & users#create actions
    X - basic users#show page to redirect_to if signup is successful
        needs /users/:id route & users#show action
    X - enable sessions & log user in upon successfully creating a new account by setting session[:user_id] to newly created user's id
  X 3. login page
    X - sessions controller
    X - sessions#new & sessions#create actions
    X - log user in by setting session[:user_id] to newly created user's id if email and password provided match existing user -- otherwise render login page again with errors
    X- redirect to user's show page if successfully logged in
  X 4. log out 
    X - session#destroy action
    X - log user out by deleting :user_id from session hash
  X 5. helper methods & protected content
    X - #current_user
    X - #logged_in?
    X - #redirect_if_not_logged_in
       X you should only be able to see the signup, login, and home page without signing in
  X 6. CRUD Ingredients
      X- routes
        C: get /ingredients/new, C: post /ingredients, 
        R: get /ingredients/:id, 
        U: get /ingredients/:id/[edit? update?], U: post /ingredients/:id, 
        D: delete /ingredients/:id
      X- Ingredients Controller
      X- controller actions 
        X#new, 
        X#create, 
        X#show, 
        X#destroy, 
        X#update,
        X#edit
      X- Views
        X - new
        X - form
        X- show
        X- edit
    X7. CRUD Basic Recipes
      X - routes
        C: get /recipes/new, C: post /recipes, 
        R: get /recipes/:id, U: get /recipes/:id/edit, 
        U: patch /recipes/:id, 
        D: delete /recipes/:id
      X- controller actions 
        #new, #create, 
        #show, 
        #destroy, 
        #update,
        #edit
        #index
      X - forms & controllers should accomodate selecting 5 ingredients from existing ingredients or 
       - create 1 new ingredient when creating a new recipe
       nope this is taking too much time, move it to the extras section and add a link to new ingredients to recipes/new in a side bar or below ingredients list 
    X8. Nested route show or index
        X users/2/recipes - index
    X9. nested route "new" form
      X - add makings model
      X- nested new form for a making
        /users/:id/makings/new
    X10. class level ActiveRecord scope methods
      - recipes by rating
      - recipes by ingredient

    X11. OmniAuth
    X 12. Connect eveything
      - add links to allow a user to navigate around site
    X 13. add protections
      - only the user who created a recipe or a making should be able to edit or delete that record
    X 14. edit controllers & views to give user access to scope methods (filter/limit recipes displayed in index)
    15. style all the remaining ugly away
      X-  refactor nav bar to enable access to all the things the site can do
        - Recipes '/recipes'
          - each recipe displayed is a link to that recipe's show page
          - show page will have links to access edit form and to delete a recipe
        - Your Recipes "/users/#{current_user.id}/recipes"
        - Save a Recipe "/recipes/new"
        - Ingredients '/recipes'
          - each ingredient displayed is a link to that ingredient's show page
          - show page will have links to access edit form and to delete an ingredient
        - Save an Ingredient "/ingredients/new"
        - What Everyone's Making '/makings'
        - What You've Made "/users/#{current_user.id}/makings"
          - each making displayed is a link to that making's show page
          - show page will have links to access edit form and to delete a making
        X8- Record What You Made
        Need to add 
        X9- Your Page 
        keep the column structure you have and move logout & greeting to footer if logged_in?
        "/users/#{current_user.id}/makings/new"
        - Log Out "/signout"
          -- keep or move to footer? 
          -- maybe move "you're logged in as: <>" to footer as well?

        - Walk through each template & style
          X- Users
            X- new
            X- show
          - Sessions
            - new
          - Recipes
            - index
            - user index
            - show
            - new
            - edit
          - Ingredients
            - index
            - user index
            - show
            - new
            - edit
          - Makings
            - index
            - user index
            - show
            - new
            - edit

    16. review views re appropriate use of helpers & partials
    17. draft README
    18. record walkthrough & upload to youtube
    19. daft blog post
    20. checklist & submit!

    Extra
    #. improve ingredient model
        - change serving size number to a fixed list with common fractions [1 .. 10, 1/8, 1/4, 1/2, 3/4, 1/3, 2/3]?
        - change serving units to a fixed list  [ounce, gram, cup, tsp, tbsp, pinch]
        - add nutritional info 
    #. improve instructions
      - cleaner way to take in instructions? maybe multiple strings that each descripe a step and then printing them in an ordered list to create an instructions section of a recipe show page. Is that another model? Instructions belong to recipes and recipes have many instructions?
    #. add category model 
      - Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner etc.
      - Paleo, Keto, Gluten Free, Vegetarian, Vegan
    #. add pictures?
      - to recipes
      - to ingredients
      - to makings
    #.  re name makings to trys 
      - yeah, makes way more sense to ask someone if they've tried a recipe and then how it went?
      - ooo add difficulty rating to too each making/try

Rails Project Review Requirement Checklist

README file contains the following sections: 
[] Application description
[] Installation guide (e.g. fork and clone repo, migrate db, bundle install, etc)
[] Contributors guide (e.g. file an issue, file an issue with a pull request, etc)
[] Licensing statement (e.g. This project has been licensed under the MIT open source license.)

LICENSE file is included in your repo and linked at the bottom of your README file(e.g. MIT open source license, GNU public license, Creative Commons license) *
[X] True

Using Ruby on Rails for the project *
[X] True

No scaffolding was used to build your project. *
[X] True

Include at least one has_many relationship (please provide example including Model names and line numbers, e.g. User has_many Recipes, User model line 3) *
[X] 
User has_many Recipes, User model line 3
 
Include at least one belongs_to relationship (please provide example including Model names and line numbers, e.g. Recipe belongs_to User, Recipe model line 5) *
[X]
Recipe belongs_to User, Recipe model line 2

Include at least one has_many through relationship (please provide example including Model names and line numbers, e.g. User has_many Ingredients through Recipes, User model line 4) *
[X]
Recipe has_many Ingredients through Amounts, Recipe model line 5


The "through" part of the has_many through includes at least one user submittable attribute. This field lives in the join table and needs to be able to be submitted via a form. (please provide attribute_name e.g. ingredients.quantity). *
[X]
amounts.servings_per_recipe

Include reasonable validations for simple model objects (please provide list of model objects with validations e.g. User, Recipe, Ingredient, Item) *
[X]

Include a class level ActiveRecord scope method (please provide model object & class method name and URL to see the working feature e.g. User.most_recipes URL: /users/most_recipes) *
[] 
Min:
Recipe.by_ingredient(ingred_id) URL: 
Recipe.by_avg_rating URL: 
Recipe.by_times_made URL: 

Include signup (how e.g. Devise) *
[X]
self drafted /users/new form & bcrypt

Include login (how e.g. Devise) *
[X]
set session[:user_id] after authenticating user & pw 

Include logout (how e.g. Devise) *
[X]
clear session[:user_id] 

Include third party signup/login (how e.g. Devise/OmniAuth, Google) *
[X]
OmniAuth w/ Facebook

Include nested route show or index (please provide URL e.g. users/2/recipes) *
[X]
/users/2/recipes -- index of user 2's recipes

Include nested route "new" form (please provide URL e.g. recipes/1/ingredients) *
[X]
/users/2/makings/new

Include form display of validation errors (please provide form URL e.g. /recipes/new) *
[X]
/users/new

The application is pretty DRY *
[]

Limited logic in controllers *
[]

Views use helper methods if appropriate *
[]

Views use partials if appropriate *
[]

Commit message:

remove link to log in with facebook; add extra idea to notes

notes.md, after:

ToDo:
  X 1. home page & root route
  X 2. signup page 
    X - /users/new route
    X - users controller
    X - users#new & users#create actions
    X - basic users#show page to redirect_to if signup is successful
        needs /users/:id route & users#show action
    X - enable sessions & log user in upon successfully creating a new account by setting session[:user_id] to newly created user's id
  X 3. login page
    X - sessions controller
    X - sessions#new & sessions#create actions
    X - log user in by setting session[:user_id] to newly created user's id if email and password provided match existing user -- otherwise render login page again with errors
    X- redirect to user's show page if successfully logged in
  X 4. log out 
    X - session#destroy action
    X - log user out by deleting :user_id from session hash
  X 5. helper methods & protected content
    X - #current_user
    X - #logged_in?
    X - #redirect_if_not_logged_in
       X you should only be able to see the signup, login, and home page without signing in
  X 6. CRUD Ingredients
      X- routes
        C: get /ingredients/new, C: post /ingredients, 
        R: get /ingredients/:id, 
        U: get /ingredients/:id/[edit? update?], U: post /ingredients/:id, 
        D: delete /ingredients/:id
      X- Ingredients Controller
      X- controller actions 
        X#new, 
        X#create, 
        X#show, 
        X#destroy, 
        X#update,
        X#edit
      X- Views
        X - new
        X - form
        X- show
        X- edit
    X7. CRUD Basic Recipes
      X - routes
        C: get /recipes/new, C: post /recipes, 
        R: get /recipes/:id, U: get /recipes/:id/edit, 
        U: patch /recipes/:id, 
        D: delete /recipes/:id
      X- controller actions 
        #new, #create, 
        #show, 
        #destroy, 
        #update,
        #edit
        #index
      X - forms & controllers should accomodate selecting 5 ingredients from existing ingredients or 
       - create 1 new ingredient when creating a new recipe
       nope this is taking too much time, move it to the extras section and add a link to new ingredients to recipes/new in a side bar or below ingredients list 
    X8. Nested route show or index
        X users/2/recipes - index
    X9. nested route "new" form
      X - add makings model
      X- nested new form for a making
        /users/:id/makings/new
    X10. class level ActiveRecord scope methods
      - recipes by rating
      - recipes by ingredient

    X11. OmniAuth
    X 12. Connect eveything
      - add links to allow a user to navigate around site
    X 13. add protections
      - only the user who created a recipe or a making should be able to edit or delete that record
    X 14. edit controllers & views to give user access to scope methods (filter/limit recipes displayed in index)
    15. style all the remaining ugly away
      X-  refactor nav bar to enable access to all the things the site can do
        - Recipes '/recipes'
          - each recipe displayed is a link to that recipe's show page
          - show page will have links to access edit form and to delete a recipe
        - Your Recipes "/users/#{current_user.id}/recipes"
        - Save a Recipe "/recipes/new"
        - Ingredients '/recipes'
          - each ingredient displayed is a link to that ingredient's show page
          - show page will have links to access edit form and to delete an ingredient
        - Save an Ingredient "/ingredients/new"
        - What Everyone's Making '/makings'
        - What You've Made "/users/#{current_user.id}/makings"
          - each making displayed is a link to that making's show page
          - show page will have links to access edit form and to delete a making
        X8- Record What You Made
        Need to add 
        X9- Your Page 
        keep the column structure you have and move logout & greeting to footer if logged_in?
        "/users/#{current_user.id}/makings/new"
        - Log Out "/signout"
          -- keep or move to footer? 
          -- maybe move "you're logged in as: <>" to footer as well?

        - Walk through each template & style
          X- Users
            X- new
            X- show
          - Sessions
            - new
          - Recipes
            - index
            - user index
            - show
            - new
            - edit
          - Ingredients
            - index
            - user index
            - show
            - new
            - edit
          - Makings
            - index
            - user index
            - show
            - new
            - edit

    16. review views re appropriate use of helpers & partials
    17. draft README
    18. record walkthrough & upload to youtube
    19. daft blog post
    20. checklist & submit!

    Extra
    #. add message to failed login with email & password, if email is registered, but pw doesn't match asking if this is the first time they've tried to log in with their email. If so suggest log in via facebook and reset password 
    redirect if user who first logged in with facebook tries to with their email and a password
      - back to '/'
      - add user edit form that let's user change their password 

    #. improve ingredient model
        - change serving size number to a fixed list with common fractions [1 .. 10, 1/8, 1/4, 1/2, 3/4, 1/3, 2/3]?
        - change serving units to a fixed list  [ounce, gram, cup, tsp, tbsp, pinch]
        - add nutritional info 
    #. improve instructions
      - cleaner way to take in instructions? maybe multiple strings that each descripe a step and then printing them in an ordered list to create an instructions section of a recipe show page. Is that another model? Instructions belong to recipes and recipes have many instructions?
    #. add category model 
      - Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner etc.
      - Paleo, Keto, Gluten Free, Vegetarian, Vegan
    #. add pictures?
      - to recipes
      - to ingredients
      - to makings
    #.  re name makings to trys 
      - yeah, makes way more sense to ask someone if they've tried a recipe and then how it went?
      - ooo add difficulty rating to too each making/try

Rails Project Review Requirement Checklist

README file contains the following sections: 
[] Application description
[] Installation guide (e.g. fork and clone repo, migrate db, bundle install, etc)
[] Contributors guide (e.g. file an issue, file an issue with a pull request, etc)
[] Licensing statement (e.g. This project has been licensed under the MIT open source license.)

LICENSE file is included in your repo and linked at the bottom of your README file(e.g. MIT open source license, GNU public license, Creative Commons license) *
[X] True

Using Ruby on Rails for the project *
[X] True

No scaffolding was used to build your project. *
[X] True

Include at least one has_many relationship (please provide example including Model names and line numbers, e.g. User has_many Recipes, User model line 3) *
[X] 
User has_many Recipes, User model line 3
 
Include at least one belongs_to relationship (please provide example including Model names and line numbers, e.g. Recipe belongs_to User, Recipe model line 5) *
[X]
Recipe belongs_to User, Recipe model line 2

Include at least one has_many through relationship (please provide example including Model names and line numbers, e.g. User has_many Ingredients through Recipes, User model line 4) *
[X]
Recipe has_many Ingredients through Amounts, Recipe model line 5


The "through" part of the has_many through includes at least one user submittable attribute. This field lives in the join table and needs to be able to be submitted via a form. (please provide attribute_name e.g. ingredients.quantity). *
[X]
amounts.servings_per_recipe

Include reasonable validations for simple model objects (please provide list of model objects with validations e.g. User, Recipe, Ingredient, Item) *
[X]

Include a class level ActiveRecord scope method (please provide model object & class method name and URL to see the working feature e.g. User.most_recipes URL: /users/most_recipes) *
[] 
Min:
Recipe.by_ingredient(ingred_id) URL: 
Recipe.by_avg_rating URL: 
Recipe.by_times_made URL: 

Include signup (how e.g. Devise) *
[X]
self drafted /users/new form & bcrypt

Include login (how e.g. Devise) *
[X]
set session[:user_id] after authenticating user & pw 

Include logout (how e.g. Devise) *
[X]
clear session[:user_id] 

Include third party signup/login (how e.g. Devise/OmniAuth, Google) *
[X]
OmniAuth w/ Facebook

Include nested route show or index (please provide URL e.g. users/2/recipes) *
[X]
/users/2/recipes -- index of user 2's recipes

Include nested route "new" form (please provide URL e.g. recipes/1/ingredients) *
[X]
/users/2/makings/new

Include form display of validation errors (please provide form URL e.g. /recipes/new) *
[X]
/users/new

The application is pretty DRY *
[]

Limited logic in controllers *
[]

Views use helper methods if appropriate *
[]

Views use partials if appropriate *
[]
